---

title: Git Commands
description: Quick Start for Git commands
date: 2024-05-04 08:57:00 -0600
categories: [cmd, devops]
tags: [git, bash]
image:
  path: /assets/images/covers/cover-git.png
  thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/cover-git.png
  alt: "Git"

---

# What is GIT ?
Git is a distributed version control system that tracks changes in files and coordinates work on those files among multiple people.

### Install (MacOS)
* `brew install git` -- install Git
* `echo "export PATH=/opt/homebrew/bin:$PATH" >> ~/.zshrc` -- add Homebrew to the PATH

---



### Configure Git Environment
Set configurations that you want to apply to all GIT repositories. To simplify setup and have consistent behavior across projects
* `git config --global user.name "<username>"` -- set global username
* `git config --global user.email "<email address>"` -- set global email
* `git config --edit --global` -- edit global Git configuration

---

### Add a New Repository
1. **Initialize a New Repository:**
   - If you want to create a new repository from scratch:
     ```bash
     git init
     ```
     This command initializes an empty Git repository in your current folder.
2. **Stage Files:**
   - To add files to the staging area for the first commit:
     ```bash
     git add .
     ```
     This stages all new and modified files in the current directory.
3. **Commit Changes:**
   - Create an initial commit:
     ```bash
     git commit -m "Initial commit"
     ```
     This creates a commit with the changes you staged.
4. **Push Initial Commit:**
   - Push the initial commit to the remote repository:
     ```bash
     git push -u origin main
     ```
     This command uploads your changes to the `main` branch on the remote repository.
5. **Check Repository Status:**
   - View the current status of the repository:
     ```bash
     git status
     ```
     This command shows which files are staged, unstaged, or untracked.

---

### Download a Repository
1. `git clone https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2` --downloads a copy of the files
2. `git status` --view status of the repository
3. `git commit -m "adding new folder"` -- commit changes with a message
4. `git push origin main` -- push changes to the main branch


## **Clone**
### Clone GIT Repo
This command downloads the repository to your local machine.

`git clone https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2` --Clone an Existing Repository

---
## **Push Changes**
`git push origin main` --Upload your local commits to the main branch of remote repository.

---

## **Uploads**
### Upload local repo to "main" branch
`git push origin main` --push to main branch

---

## **Downloads**
### Git Fetch local to cloud differences
`git fetch` --Downloads the latest changes from the remote repository but does not automatically merge them into your local branch.

### Git Pull
`git pull` --Downloads changes from the remote repository and automatically merges them into your current local branch.

---

## **Edits**
### Remove Initialized folder
`rm -rf .git` -- or `rm -rf <filename>` to remove initialized git folder

### Rename or Delete using Git
* `git mv file file2` --rename a file
* `git rm file` --remove a file
### Move file back from Staging Area
* `git restore --staged <filename>`--unstage a single file
* `git restore --staged .` to unstage all files

### Snapshot restore
`git reset <commit #>`--reset to a specific commit

---

## **History**
### View Commit history
* `git log` --view commit history
* `git log --pretty=oneline` --view commit history in one line
* `git patch` --view commit history in patch format
* `git show <commit#>` --show a specific commit

---

## **Remote**
### Connect to Remote (if needed):
`git remote add origin <remote url>` - Add a remote repository URL if you plan to push your repository to a remote server

### SSH into GitHub
`ssh -T git@github.com` --SSH into GitHub