---
title: My Dotfiles
description: This directory contains the dotfiles for my system
date: 2024-05-04 09:35:00 -0600
categories: [Command Line,Linux,Backups]
tags: [stow,bash]
---

---
## Requirements
Ensure you have both Git and Stow  installed first
- `brew list git` -- check if git is installed
- `brew list stow` -- check if stow is installed

---
## Installation
First, check out the dotfiles repo in your $HOME directory using git
```bash
$ git clone git@github.com/dreamsofautonomy/dotfiles.git
$ cd dotfiles
```

then use GNU stow to create symlinks
```bash
$ stow .
```
---
## Usage
### Add a new dotfile
This example adds your home folder's .zshrc file to the dotfiles repo
```bash
cd ~/dotfiles
cp ~/.zshrc .
mv ~/.zshrc ~/.zshrc.bak # backup the original file
```
### Add a new folder
This example adds your home folder's .config folder to the dotfiles repo
```bash
mkdir .oh-my-zsh
cp -r ~/.oh_my-zsh/ .oh-my-zsh
mv ~/.oh_my-zsh/ ~/.oh_my_zsh.bak
```
### Restore folders from git
This shows how to restore folders from git using stow on a fresh machine
```bash
stow -R .
```

---
## Troubleshooting
### Confirm if symlink is in home folder
Make sure the symlink was created in your home folder.   Symlink should point to the dotfiles repo
```bash
cd ~
ls -la .zshrc
```

### Check if a symlink is a folder
To check if a symlink is a folder, you can use the `-d` flag with the `ls` command. Here's an example:
```bash
ls -ld ~/.oh-my-zsh
```

---
## List of hidden User configuration files for stow backup and restore
* `.zshrc `- Zsh configurations (file).
* `.ssh` - SSH keys and configuration (directory).
* `.vimrc` - Configuration for Vim (file).
* `.gitconfig` - Global Git configuration settings (file).
* `.oh-my-zsh` - Configuration for Oh My Zsh (directory).
* `.config` - Configuration files for various applications (directory).

## Maybe add these in the future
* `.ipython`- Configuration for IPython interactive shell (directory).
* `.jupyter`- Configuration for Jupyter (directory).

---
## Resources
* [Manage dotfiles with GNU Stow](https://dr563105.github.io/blog/manage-dotfiles-with-gnu-stow/)
* [Stow - Official Documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/)
* [YT - Stow - Manage dotfiles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6XCebnB9gs)
